## Planning, Roadmaps, Processes

### Planning
- [The Secret to a Great Planning Process — Lessons from Airbnb and Eventbrite](https://firstround.com/review/the-secret-to-a-great-planning-process-lessons-from-airbnb-and-eventbrite/) - by Lenny Rachitsky and Nels Gilbreth. Takeaway: "[T]he root cause of nearly all bad planning processes is very simple: a basic lack of understanding of roles — who is responsible for what, when. For example, who should have a say in the plan, and when? What exactly does each stakeholder need to deliver, and to whom? Who sets the timelines? Who holds everyone accountable? And who makes the final call? These questions are too often left unanswered, which leads to chaos and disappointment during the planning process." Includes discussion of the W Framework, created by the authors to drive planning at all levels of an organization, and a [template](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JI73WrGplrhNE46aLyRD_B74gEynI77EPgXn1ic6WeQ/edit#). The Framework covers these four pillars: "1. Context: Leadership shares a high-level strategy with Teams; 2. Plans: Teams respond with proposed plans; 3. Integration: Leadership integrates into a single plan, and shares with Teams; 4. Buy-in: Teams make final tweaks, confirm buy-in, and get rolling."

### Team Retreats
- [How to Run a Successful Team Retreat](https://knowyourteam.com/blog/2019/08/13/how-to-run-a-successful-team-retreat/?utm_source=kytnewsletter&utm_medium=email) - by Claire Lew. Takeaway: Define success, share context, create alignment, and build trust. Includes a template for you to use in designing your own retreat.
