* This quote changed my life faster than I ever thought possible and it really is the catalyst for the Miracle Morning. 
    * And he said **"Your level of success "will seldom exceed your level of personal development, "because success is something you attract "by the person you become."** And in that moment, I went "I'm not dedicating time every day to my personal development, therefore, I'm not becoming the person that I need to be to create the success that I want in my life." And I had this epiphany that I got to go figure out what the world's most successful people do for their personal development

* **SAVERS Silence Affirmation Visualisation Exercise Reading Scribing

* **Practice silence for greater clarity**
    * So I'll look at my schedule, and I'll go okay, what do I need to accomplish today. And, you know, depends on what's on the agenda, like I just finished writing a new book, and when I was working on that book, every day, every morning, you know I meditate before I'd write
    * Another way to do it is, sometimes I might have a speech for that day, and I'd go, I need to feel confident. I am speaking, and I will literally just affirm things while I am in my meditation, and I'll just affirm things like, what did I do today.
    * But ultimately, I typically will have a specific result that I want to generate internally, either mentally or emotionally, and I will set that intention going into meditation, and I will use the meditation actively to do that. So I will think something over and over and over and over, while I deeply feel it in a way that will serve me for the rest of the day.
* **Make truthful affirmations**
    * An affirmation is simply a written statement that directs your focus towards something of value. 
    * Craft your affirmations as commitments
    * There's four steps to create affirmations that produce results. 
      * Number one is affirm what you're committed to.
      * The second thing is why is that deeply meaningful to you?
      * number three is affirm what specifically you're committed to doing that will ensure your success, right
      * And then the fourth part of the affirmation formula is, when specifically are you committed to implementing those activities?
*  **Use visualization to motivate yourself**
    * Two things on it. Number one is the world's best athletes almost all of them use visualization including UFC fighters, right. And there's a reason for that. It's they visualize themself performing optimally and achieving their goals so that they go there mentally and emotionally before they ever step on the court or before they ever open the book or before they ever, right. They've already gone there in their mind so when it's realtime, when it's game time, when it's practice them it's that much easier to go there.
    * And the other thing I'll say on visualization is don't just visualize the end result. Visualize, in fact more important, visualize the activity. See yourself getting on the phone to make those calls. See yourself opening your computer to write those words that's going to make that into a book. See yourself going to the gym or lacing up your running shoes and heading out your front door. Especially if you don't feel like it or you don't like doing those things. See yourself doing it with a smile on your face in a way that's appealing.
    
* **Boost your energy with morning exercise**
    * What I'm telling you is that the benefits of exercising in the morning even for 60 seconds, okay. If you're sitting on the couch going oh, I know I should, you know, I don't have any energy. I'm so tired. Stand up and do 60 seconds of jumping jacks. I promise you at the end of the 60 seconds you'll be breathing hard, your blood will be flowing throughout your lymph system, you know, your brain, right, the oxygen. Your cells will be oxygenated. You'll feel 10 times more awake than you did before you did those 60 seconds of jumping jacks.
* **Read a few pages each day**
    * it reveals the morning rituals of some of the worlds most successful people, and in that is world class entrepreneur Joe Polish, and he said that, he goes, "When I meet someone "and I say what's the best book you've read "in the last year?, and they go well I don't read, "I haven't read a book." He said, "It blows my mind that in places "where people have access to books "and they know how to read, "and therefore they have access "to everything they need to know "to transform anything in their life "to be at the most extraordinary level it could be," He said, "It blows my mind that people aren't reading "every single day. Why aren't you reading every day? It could be five or ten minutes a day. Doesn't have to be a long time. Think about it. If you read 10 pages a day, that's 300 pages a month, right?
    * You're a different person. You're separating yourself from 95% of our society, and you're joining the top 5% that reads those books because you're learning everything you need to to transform any area of your life.
* **Clarify your priorities by journaling**
    * use an app called Five Minute Journal, they also make a hard cover version if you prefer to write by hand. You can also just write freehand on a piece of paper. The Five Minute Journal, I like it because it's scientifically researched, and it's very simple, and takes five minutes, and it's simply pre prompted statements or questions.
    * So I start with gratitude, and then I looked at my to do list, I look at my goals, I'm like okay, of the infinite things I could work on today, and out of the 20 things that are on my goal and to do list, **what are the three that will make the biggest impact for me right now,** and move me forward toward my most important goals? And you think about it, you know, most people, we don't take the time to just get that level of clarity. It only takes a couple of minutes, but it's a game changer.

* **Appreciate your current place in the journey**
    * Be at peace with where you are every day along that journey while you simultaneously maintain a healthy sense of urgency to take action every day to get where you want to go, but don't get there out of a feeling of stress and anxiety and I'm not where I want to be. Just embrace where you are. If you're alive, you're perfect, right. No matter what's going on around you all that matters is what's going on inside you. So be at peace with where you are and take steps every day to get where you want to go.
